

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F80.9

Developmental disorder of speech and language, unspecified

Applicable To Communication disorder NOS Language disorder NOS

Approximate Synonyms

 Communication disorder 
 Delayed articulatory and language development 
 Developmental disorder w speech delay 
 Developmental language delay 
 Developmental language disorder 
 Developmental speech and language disorder 
 Developmental speech disorder 
 Disorder of language 
 Disorder of speech and language development 
 Language disorder, developmental 
 Language problem 
 Non-organic communication disorder 
 Psychogenic communication disorder 
 Speech and language disorder 
 Speech delay 

Clinical Information

 A category of disorders characterized by an impairment in the development of an individual's language capabilities, which is in contrast to his/her non-verbal intellect. 
 A disorder characterized by an individual's inability to comprehend or share ideas or feelings because of an impairment in language, speech, or hearing. 
 Any of various disorders characterized by impaired verbal or nonverbal exchange or impaired transmission of thoughts, messages, or information. 
 Conditions characterized by deficiencies of comprehension or expression of written and spoken forms of language. These include acquired and developmental disorders. 
 Conditions characterized by deficiencies of comprehension or expression of written and spoken forms of language; includes acquired and developmental disorders. 
 Detection of diminished ability to exchange thoughts, opinions, information, or other forms of communication such as disorders of language, reading, speech and hearing. 
 Diminished ability to exchange thoughts, opinions, or information 
 Disorders of verbal and nonverbal communication caused by receptive or expressive language disorders, cognitive dysfunction (e.g., mental retardation), psychiatric conditions, and hearing disorders. 
 Disorders, usually due to cognitive or neurological dysfunction, resulting in problems in symbolization or in delays in language and speech development. 
 Impaired ability to communicate usually, due to speech, language, or hearing disorders. 

ICD-10-CM  F80.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 886  Behavioral and developmental disorders 

