

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F81.9

Developmental disorder of scholastic skills, unspecified

Applicable To Knowledge acquisition disability NOS Learning disability NOS Learning disorder NOS

Approximate Synonyms

 Developmental academic disorder 
 Learning difficulties 
 Nonverbal learning disorder 

Clinical Information

 A group of disorders that affect a person's ability to learn or process specific types of information which is in contrast to his/her apparent level of intellect. 
 According to United States Federal legislation, disabilities involved in understanding or using language, manifested in impaired listening, thinking, talking, reading, writing, or arithmetic skills. Includes perceptual handicaps, brain injury, minimal brain dysfunction, and developmental aphasia. Compare learning disorders. 
 According to United States Federal legislation, learning problems that are due to visual, hearing, or motor handicaps, mental retardation, emotional disturbance or environmental, cultural, or economic disadvantage. Compare learning disabilities. 
 Conditions characterized by a significant discrepancy between an individual's perceived level of intellect and their ability to acquire new language and other cognitive skills. These disorders may result from organic or psychological conditions. Relatively common subtypes include dyslexia, dyscalculia, and dysgraphia. 
 Conditions characterized by a significant discrepancy between an individual's perceived level of intellect and their ability to acquire new language and other cognitive skills; may result from organic or psychological conditions. 
 Learning disorders affect how a person understands, remembers and responds to new information. People with learning disorders may have problems   listening or paying attention   speaking   reading or writing   doing math although learning disorders occur in very young children, they are usually not recognized until the child reaches school age. About one-third of children who have learning disabilities also have adhd, which makes it hard to focus. Evaluation and testing by a trained professional can help identify a learning disorder. The next step is special education, which involves helping your child in the areas where he or she needs the most help. Sometimes tutors or speech or language therapists also work with the children. Learning disorders do not go away, but strategies to work around them can make them less of a problem. 

ICD-10-CM  F81.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 886  Behavioral and developmental disorders 

