

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F84.5

Asperger's syndrome

Applicable To Asperger's disorder Autistic psychopathy Schizoid disorder of childhood

Approximate Synonyms

 Asperger's disorder 
 Aspergers disorder 
 Aspergers disorder, residual state 
 Residual aspergers disorder 

Clinical Information

 A childhood disorder predominately affecting boys and similar to autism 
 A childhood disorder predominately affecting boys and similar to autism (autistic disorder). It is characterized by severe, sustained, clinically significant impairment of social interaction, and restricted repetitive and stereotyped patterns of behavior. In contrast to autism, there are no clinically significant delays in language or cognitive development. (from dsm-iv) 
 A disorder most often diagnosed in the pediatric years in which the individual displays marked impairment in social interaction and a repetitive, stereotyped pattern of behavior. The individual, however, displays no delay in language or cognitive development, which differentiates asperger syndrome from autism. 
 Asperger's syndrome (as) is an autism spectrum disorder. It is milder than autism but shares some of its symptoms. It is more common in boys than girls.an obsessive interest in a single subject is a major symptom of as. Some children with as have become experts on dinosaurs, makes and models of cars, even objects as seemingly odd as vacuum cleaners. Their expertise, high level of vocabulary and formal speech patterns make them seem like little professors. Children with as have trouble reading social cues and recognizing other people's feelings. They may have strange movements or mannerisms. All of these make it difficult for them to make friends. Problems with motor skills are also common in children with as. They may be late learning to ride a bike or catch a ball, for example. Treatment focuses on the three main symptoms: poor communication skills, obsessive or repetitive routines, and physical clumsiness. 
 Neuropsychiatric disorder whose major manifestation is an inability to interact socially; other features include poor verbal and motor skills, singlemindedness, and social withdrawal. 
 Syndrome or disorder usually first diagnosed in childhood, characterized by severe and sustained impairment in social interactions and restricted, repetitive patterns of behaviors, interests, and activities. 

ICD-10-CM  F84.5  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 885  Psychoses 

