

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F84.0

Autistic disorder

Applicable To Autism spectrum disorder Infantile autism Infantile psychosis Kanner's syndrome
Type 1 Excludes Type 1 Excludes Help A  type 1 excludes  note is a pure excludes.  It means "not coded here". A type 1 excludes note indicates that the code excluded should never be used at the same time as  F84.0 . A type 1 excludes note is for used for when two conditions cannot occur together, such as a congenital form versus an acquired form of the same condition. Asperger's syndrome ( ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code  F84.5 Asperger's syndrome 2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022   2023   Billable/Specific Code   Applicable To Asperger's disorder Autistic psychopathy Schizoid disorder of childhood F84.5 )

Approximate Synonyms

 Active infantile autism 
 Autism disorder 
 Autism disorder, residual state 
 Autism spectrum disorder 
 Autism, childhood onset 
 Autism, infantile, active 
 Autistic disorder of childhood onset 
 Childhood onset autism 
 Childhood psychosis 
 Early childhood psychosis 
 Pervasive developmental disorder 
 Psychosis in early childhood 
 Psychosis with origin in childhood 
 Psychosis, childhood, current or active state 
 Psychosis, early child 
 Residual infantile autism 

Clinical Information

 A disorder beginning in childhood. It is marked by the presence of markedly abnormal or impaired development in social interaction and communication and a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest. Manifestations of the disorder vary greatly depending on the developmental level and chronological age of the individual. (dsm-iv) 
 A disorder characterized by marked impairments in social interaction and communication accompanied by a pattern of repetitive, stereotyped behaviors and activities. Developmental delays in social interaction and language surface prior to age 3 years. 
 Autism is a disorder that is usually diagnosed in early childhood. The main signs and symptoms of autism involve communication, social interactions and repetitive behaviors. Children with autism might have problems talking with you, or they might not look you in the eye when you talk to them. They may spend a lot of time putting things in order before they can pay attention, or they may say the same sentence again and again to calm themselves down. They often seem to be in their "own world."because people with autism can have very different features or symptoms, health care providers think of autism as a "spectrum" disorder. asperger syndrome is a milder version of the disorder.the cause of autism is not known. Autism lasts throughout a person's lifetime. There is no cure, but treatment can help. Treatments include behavior and communication therapies and medicines to control symptoms. Starting treatment as early as possible is important. nih: national institute of child health and human development 
 Disorder beginning in childhood marked by the presence of markedly abnormal or impaired development in social interaction and communication and a markedly restricted repertoire of activity and interest; manifestations of the disorder vary greatly depending on the developmental level and chronological age of the individual. 
 Type of autism characterized by very early detection (< 30 months), social coldness, grossly impaired communication, and bizarre motor responses. 

ICD-10-CM  F84.0  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 884  Organic disturbances and intellectual disability 

