

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F90.9

Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder, unspecified type

Applicable To Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder of childhood or adolescence NOS Attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder NOS

Approximate Synonyms

 Adhd 
 Articulation disorder due to hyperkinesis 
 Attention deficit hyperactivity disorder 
 Conduct disorder, hyperkinetic 
 Developmental articulation disorder due to hyperkinesis 
 Developmental speech disorder due to hyperkinesis 
 Hyperkinetic conduct disorder 
 Long term current use of medication for add and or adhd 
 Long term current use of medication for attention deficit disorder (add) or attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd) 

Clinical Information

 A behavior disorder in which the essential features are signs of developmentally inappropriate inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity. 
 A behavior disorder originating in childhood in which the essential features are signs of developmentally inappropriate inattention, impulsivity, and hyperactivity. Although most individuals have symptoms of both inattention and hyperactivity-impulsivity, one or the other pattern may be predominant. The disorder is more frequent in males than females. Onset is in childhood. Symptoms often attenuate during late adolescence although a minority experience the full complement of symptoms into mid-adulthood. (from dsm-iv) 
 A disorder characterized by a marked pattern of inattention and/or hyperactivity-impulsivity that is inconsistent with developmental level and clearly interferes with functioning in at least two settings (e.g. At home and at school). At least some of the symptoms must be present before the age of 7 years. 
 Is it hard for your child to sit still? does your child act without thinking first? does your child start but not finish things? if so, your child may have attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (adhd). Nearly everyone shows some of these behaviors at times, but adhd lasts more than 6 months and causes problems in school, at home and in social situations. Adhd is more common in boys than girls. It affects 3-5 percent of all american children.the main features of adhd are   inattention   hyperactivity   impulsivity no one knows exactly what causes adhd. It sometimes runs in families, so genetics may be a factor. There may also be environmental factors.a complete evaluation by a trained professional is the only way to know for sure if your child has adhd. Treatment may include medicine to control symptoms, therapy, or both. Structure at home and at school is important. Parent training may also help. 

ICD-10-CM  F90.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 886  Behavioral and developmental disorders 

