

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F95.2

Tourette's disorder

Applicable To Combined vocal and multiple motor tic disorder [de la Tourette] Tourette's syndrome

Approximate Synonyms

 Gilles de la tourette syndrome 
 Gilles de la tourette's syndrome 
 Gilles de la tourettes syndrome 
 Tourettes disorder 

Clinical Information

 A neurologic disorder caused by defective metabolism of the neurotransmitters in the brain. It is characterized by repeated involuntary movements (motor tics) and uncontrollable vocal sounds (vocal tics). The symptoms are usually manifested before the age of eighteen. 
 A neuropsychological disorder related to alterations in dopamine metabolism and neurotransmission involving frontal-subcortical neuronal circuits. Both multiple motor and one or more vocal tics need to be present with tics occurring many times a day, nearly daily, over a period of more than one year. The onset is before age 18 and the disturbance is not due to direct physiological effects of a substance or a general medical condition. The disturbance causes marked distress or significant impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. (from dsm-iv, 1994; neurol clin 1997 may;15(2):357-79) 
 If you have tourette syndrome, you make unusual movements or sounds, called tics. You have little or no control over them. Common tics are throat-clearing and blinking. You may repeat words, spin, or, rarely, blurt out swear words. About one of every 100 people has tourette syndrome. It often occurs with other problems, such as  attention deficit hyperactivity disorder  (adhd)  obsessive-compulsive disorder (ocd)  anxiety  depression the cause of tourette syndrome is unknown. It is more common in boys than girls. The tics usually start in childhood and may be worst in the early teens. Many people eventually outgrow them. No treatment is needed unless the tics interfere with everyday life. Excitement or worry can make tics worse. Calm, focused activities may make them better. Medicines and talk therapy may also help. 
 Neuropsychological disorder related to alterations in dopamine metabolism and neurotransmission involving frontal-subcortical neuronal circuits; both multiple motor and one or more vocal tics need to be present with tics occurring many times a day, nearly daily, over a period of more than one year; disturbance causes marked distress or significant impairment in social, occupational, or other important areas of functioning. 

ICD-10-CM  F95.2  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 091  Other disorders of nervous system with mcc 
 092  Other disorders of nervous system with cc 
 093  Other disorders of nervous system without cc/mcc 

