

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code F98.1

Encopresis not due to a substance or known physiological condition

Applicable To Functional encopresis Incontinence of feces of nonorganic origin Psychogenic encopresis
Use Additional Use Additional Help Certain conditions have both an underlying etiology and multiple body system manifestations due to the underlying etiology. For such conditions the ICD-10-CM has a coding convention that requires the underlying condition be sequenced first followed by the manifestation.  Wherever such a combination exists there is a  "use additional code"  note at the etiology code, and a "code first" note at the manifestation code.  These instructional notes indicate the proper sequencing order of the codes, etiology followed by manifestation. In most cases the manifestation codes will have in the code title, "in diseases classified elsewhere."  Codes with this title are a component of the etiology/manifestation convention. The code title indicates that it is a manifestation code. "In diseases classified elsewhere" codes are never permitted to be used as first listed or principle diagnosis codes. They must be used in conjunction with an underlying condition code and they must be listed following the underlying condition. code to identify the cause of any coexisting constipation.
Type 1 Excludes Type 1 Excludes Help A  type 1 excludes  note is a pure excludes.  It means "not coded here". A type 1 excludes note indicates that the code excluded should never be used at the same time as  F98.1 . A type 1 excludes note is for used for when two conditions cannot occur together, such as a congenital form versus an acquired form of the same condition. encopresis NOS ( ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code  R15   R15  Fecal incontinence   R15.0  Incomplete defecation   R15.1  Fecal smearing   R15.2  Fecal urgency   R15.9  Full incontinence of feces R15.- )

Approximate Synonyms

 Encopresis without constipation and without overflow incontinence 
 Encopresis, functional 
 Functional encopresis 
 Primary functional encopresis 
 Psychogenic encopresis wo constipation and overflow incontinence 
 Secondary functional encopresis 

Clinical Information

 An elimination disorder characterized by fecal incontinence, whether involuntary or intentional, which is not due to a medical condition and which occurs at an age of at least 4 years. 
 Incontinence of feces not due to organic defect or illness. 

ICD-10-CM  F98.1  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 886  Behavioral and developmental disorders 

