

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code G90.9

Disorder of the autonomic nervous system, unspecified

Approximate Synonyms

 Disorder of peripheral autonomic nervous system 
 Neuropathy (nerve damage), autonomic 
 Peripheral autonomic neuropathy 

Clinical Information

 Condition in which there is a deviation from or interruption of the normal structure or function of the parasympathetic or sympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system; autonomic dysfunction may be associated with hypothalamic diseases, brain stem disorders, spinal cord diseases, and peripheral nervous system diseases; manifestations include impairments of vegetative functions including the maintenance of blood pressure, heart rate, pupil function, sweating, reproductive and urinary physiology, and digestion. 
 Diseases of the parasympathetic or sympathetic divisions of the autonomic nervous system; which has components located in the central nervous system and peripheral nervous system. Autonomic dysfunction may be associated with hypothalamic diseases; brain stem disorders; spinal cord diseases; and peripheral nervous system diseases. Manifestations include impairments of vegetative functions including the maintenance of blood pressure; heart rate; pupil function; sweating; reproductive and urinary physiology; and digestion. 
 Your autonomic nervous system is the part of your nervous system that controls involuntary actions, such as the beating of your heart and the widening or narrowing of your blood vessels. When something goes wrong in this system, it can cause serious problems, including  blood pressure problems  heart problems  trouble with breathing and swallowing  erectile dysfunction in men autonomic nervous system disorders can occur alone or as the result of another disease, such as parkinson's disease, alcoholism and diabetes. Problems can affect either part of the system, as in complex regional pain syndromes, or all of the system. Some types are temporary, but many worsen over time. When they affect your breathing or heart function, these disorders can be life-threatening.some autonomic nervous system disorders get better when an underlying disease is treated. Often, however, there is no cure. In that case, the goal of treatment is to improve symptoms. 

ICD-10-CM  G90.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 073  Cranial and peripheral nerve disorders with mcc 
 074  Cranial and peripheral nerve disorders without mcc 

