

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code G91.9

Hydrocephalus, unspecified

Approximate Synonyms

 Acquired hydrocephalus 
 Hydrocephalus 
 Hydrocephalus, acquired 

Clinical Information

 (hye-dro-sef-uh-lus) the abnormal buildup of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain. 
 A disorder characterized by an abnormal increase of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain. 
 Excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid within the cranium which may be a congenital or acquired disorder; hydrocephalus ex-vacuo refers to ventricular dilation that occurs as a result of brain substance loss from cerebral infarction and other conditions. 
 Excessive accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid within the cranium which may be associated with dilation of cerebral ventricles, intracranial hypertension; headache; lethargy; urinary incontinence; and ataxia. 
 Excessive gathering of cerebrospinal fluid within the head bone 
 Hydrocephalus is the buildup of too much cerebrospinal fluid in the brain. Normally, this fluid cushions your brain. When you have too much, though, it puts harmful pressure on your brain.there are two kinds of hydrocephalus. Congenital hydrocephalus is present at birth. Causes include genetic problems and problems with how the fetus develops. An unusually large head is the main sign of congenital hydrocephalus. Acquired hydrocephalus can occur at any age. Causes can include head injuries, strokes, infections, tumors and bleeding in the brain. Symptoms of acquired hydrocephalus can include  headache  vomiting and nausea  blurry vision  balance problems  bladder control problems  thinking and memory problems hydrocephalus can permanently damage the brain, causing problems with physical and mental development. If untreated, it is usually fatal. With treatment, many people lead normal lives with few limitations. Treatment usually involves surgery to insert a shunt. Medicine and rehabilitation therapy can also help. 
 The abnormal buildup of cerebrospinal fluid in the ventricles of the brain. 

ICD-10-CM  G91.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 056  Degenerative nervous system disorders with mcc 
 057  Degenerative nervous system disorders without mcc 

