

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code G93.7

Reye's syndrome

ICD-10-CM Coding Rules

 G93.7  is applicable to pediatric patients aged 0 - 17 years inclusive. 

Use Additional Use Additional Help Certain conditions have both an underlying etiology and multiple body system manifestations due to the underlying etiology. For such conditions the ICD-10-CM has a coding convention that requires the underlying condition be sequenced first followed by the manifestation.  Wherever such a combination exists there is a  "use additional code"  note at the etiology code, and a "code first" note at the manifestation code.  These instructional notes indicate the proper sequencing order of the codes, etiology followed by manifestation. In most cases the manifestation codes will have in the code title, "in diseases classified elsewhere."  Codes with this title are a component of the etiology/manifestation convention. The code title indicates that it is a manifestation code. "In diseases classified elsewhere" codes are never permitted to be used as first listed or principle diagnosis codes. They must be used in conjunction with an underlying condition code and they must be listed following the underlying condition. code for adverse effect due to salicylates, if applicable ( ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code  T39.0 Poisoning by, adverse effect of and underdosing of salicylates 2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022   2023   Non-Billable/Non-Specific Code   T39.0- , with sixth character 5)
Code First Code First Help Certain conditions have both an underlying etiology and multiple body system manifestations due to the underlying etiology. For such conditions, ICD-10-CM has a coding convention that requires the underlying condition be sequenced first followed by the manifestation.  Wherever such a combination exists there is a "use additional code" note at the etiology code, and a  "code first"  note at the manifestation code.  These instructional notes indicate the proper sequencing order of the codes, etiology followed by manifestation. In most cases the manifestation codes will have in the code title, "in diseases classified elsewhere."  Codes with this title are a component of the etiology/manifestation convention. The code title indicates that it is a manifestation code. "In diseases classified elsewhere" codes are never permitted to be used as first listed or principle diagnosis codes. They must be used in conjunction with an underlying condition code and they must be listed following the underlying condition. poisoning due to salicylates, if applicable ( ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code  T39.0 Poisoning by, adverse effect of and underdosing of salicylates 2016   2017   2018   2019   2020   2021   2022   2023   Non-Billable/Non-Specific Code   T39.0- , with sixth character 1-4)

Approximate Synonyms

 Reyes syndrome 

Clinical Information

 A form of encephalopathy with fatty infiltration of the liver, characterized by brain edema and vomiting that may rapidly progress to seizures; coma; and death. It is caused by a generalized loss of mitochondrial function leading to disturbances in fatty acid and carnitine metabolism. 
 A rare disease that damages the brain and liver and causes death if not treated. It occurs most often in children younger than 15 years who have had a fever-causing virus, such as chickenpox or flu. Taking aspirin during a viral illness may increase the risk of reye syndrome. 
 An acute and potentially fatal metabolic disorder characterized by cerebral edema, fatty liver and hypoglycemia. It occurs primarily in children and has been associated with the use of aspirin for the treatment of viral infections. However, it can also occur in the absence of aspirin use. 
 Rare, acute, sometimes fatal disease of childhood, most often occurring as a sequel of varicella or a viral upper respiratory infection of childhood; marked by recurrent vomiting and elevated serum transaminase levels with distinctive changes in the liver and other viscera; an encephalopathic phase with acute brain swelling disturbances of consciousness and seizures may follow. 
 Reye syndrome is a rare illness that can affect the blood, liver and brain of someone who recently had a viral infection. It always follows another illness. Although it mostly affects children and teens, anyone can get it. It can develop quickly and without warning. It is most common during flu season. Symptoms include  nausea and vomiting  listlessness   personality change - such as irritability, combativeness or confusion  delirium   convulsions   loss of consciousness   if these symptoms occur soon after a viral illness, seek medical attention immediately. Reye syndrome can lead to a coma and brain death, so quick diagnosis and treatment are critical. Treatment focuses on preventing brain damage. There is no cure.the cause of reye syndrome is unknown. However, studies have shown that taking aspirin increases the risk of getting it. Because of that, health care professionals now recommend other pain relievers for young patients. 

ICD-10-CM  G93.7  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 091  Other disorders of nervous system with mcc 
 092  Other disorders of nervous system with cc 
 093  Other disorders of nervous system without cc/mcc 

