

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code G95.9

Disease of spinal cord, unspecified

Applicable To Myelopathy NOS

Approximate Synonyms

 Intervertebral disc disorder with myelopathy 
 Myelopathy 
 Myelopathy due to another disorder 
 Myelopathy secondary 
 Spinal cord disease 
 Spinal cord injury 
 Spinal cord lesion 

Clinical Information

 A non neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the spinal cord. 
 Pathologic conditions which feature spinal cord damage or dysfunction, including disorders involving the meninges and perimeningeal spaces surrounding the spinal cord. 
 Pathologic conditions which feature spinal cord damage or dysfunction, including disorders involving the meninges and perimeningeal spaces surrounding the spinal cord. Traumatic injuries, vascular diseases, infections, and inflammatory/autoimmune processes may affect the spinal cord. 
 Your spinal cord is the part of your nervous system that relays messages to and from your brain. It is housed inside your vertebrae, which are the bone disks that make up your spine. Normally, your vertebrae protect your spinal cord. If they don't, you can sustain a spinal cord injury. Besides injuries, the spinal cord can develop  tumors  infections such as meningitis and poliomyelitis  inflammatory diseases  autoimmune diseases   degenerative diseases such as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and spinal muscular atrophy symptoms vary but might include pain, numbness, loss of sensation and muscle weakness. These symptoms can occur around the spinal cord, and also in other areas such as your arms and legs. Treatments vary but often include medicines and surgery. 

ICD-10-CM  G95.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 091  Other disorders of nervous system with mcc 
 092  Other disorders of nervous system with cc 
 093  Other disorders of nervous system without cc/mcc 
 974  Hiv with major related condition with mcc 
 975  Hiv with major related condition with cc 
 976  Hiv with major related condition without cc/mcc 

