

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code G98.8

Other disorders of nervous system

Applicable To Nervous system disorder NOS

Approximate Synonyms

 Nervous system complication from surgically implanted device 
 Nervous system complications from surgical implant 

Clinical Information

 A non-neoplastic or neoplastic disorder that affects the brain, spinal cord, or peripheral nerves. 
 Any deviation from the normal structure or function of the nervous system that is manifested by a characteristic set of symptoms and signs. 
 Diseases of the central and peripheral nervous system. This includes disorders of the brain, spinal cord, cranial nerves, peripheral nerves, nerve roots, autonomic nervous system, neuromuscular junction, and muscle. 
 Impairment of health or a condition of abnormal functioning of the nervous system. 
 Neurologic diseases are disorders of the brain, spinal cord and nerves throughout your body. Together they control all the workings of the body. When something goes wrong with a part of your nervous system, you can have trouble moving, speaking, swallowing, breathing or learning. You can also have problems with your memory, senses or mood. There are more than 600 neurologic diseases. Major types include    diseases caused by faulty genes, such as huntington's disease and muscular dystrophy    problems with the way the nervous system develops, such as spina bifida    degenerative diseases, where nerve cells are damaged or die, such as parkinson's disease and alzheimer's disease    diseases of the blood vessels that supply the brain, such as stroke    injuries to the spinal cord and brain    seizure disorders, such as epilepsy     cancer, such as brain tumors    infections, such as meningitis 

ICD-10-CM  G98.8  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 070  Nonspecific cerebrovascular disorders with mcc 
 071  Nonspecific cerebrovascular disorders with cc 
 072  Nonspecific cerebrovascular disorders without cc/mcc 
 974  Hiv with major related condition with mcc 
 975  Hiv with major related condition with cc 
 976  Hiv with major related condition without cc/mcc 

