

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code H93.19

Tinnitus, unspecified ear

Approximate Synonyms

 Objective pulsatile tinnitus 
 Objective tinnitus 
 Pulsatile tinnitus, objective 
 Pulsatile tinnitus, subjective 
 Subjective pulsatile tinnitus 
 Subjective tinnitus 
 Tinnitus 
 Tinnitus (ringing in ears) 
 Tinnitus, subjective (hears ringing in ears) 

Clinical Information

 A disorder characterized by noise in the ears, such as ringing, buzzing, roaring or clicking. 
 A disorder in which a person hears noises such as buzzing, ringing, clicking, or the sound of a pulse, when no outside sound is causing them. Tinnitus may have many different causes, and may be a symptom of another disease or condition. It may be caused by certain tumors and anticancer drugs. 
 A noise in the ears, such as ringing, buzzing, roaring, clicking. 
 A nonspecific symptom of hearing disorder characterized by the sensation of buzzing, ringing, clicking, pulsations, and other noises in the ear. Objective tinnitus refers to noises generated from within the ear or adjacent structures that can be heard by other individuals. The term subjective tinnitus is used when the sound is audible only to the affected individual. Tinnitus may occur as a manifestation of cochlear diseases; vestibulocochlear nerve diseases; intracranial hypertension; craniocerebral trauma; and other conditions. 
 Do you hear a ringing, roaring, clicking or hissing sound in your ears? do you hear this sound often or all the time? does the sound bother you? if you answer is yes, you might have tinnitus.  Millions of people in the United States Have tinnitus. People with severe tinnitus may have trouble hearing, working or even sleeping. Causes of tinnitus include hearing loss, exposure to loud noises or medicines you may be taking for a different problem. Tinnitus may also be a symptom of other health problems, such as allergies, high or low blood pressure, tumors and problems in the heart, blood vessels, jaw and neck. Treatment depends on the cause. Treatments may include hearing aids, sound-masking devices, medicines and ways to learn how to cope with the noise.  nih: national institute on deafness and other communication disorders 
 Symptom of hearing disorder characterized by the sensation of buzzing, ringing, clicking, pulsations, roaring or other noises in the ear. 

ICD-10-CM  H93.19  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 154  Other ear, nose, mouth and throat diagnoses with mcc 
 155  Other ear, nose, mouth and throat diagnoses with cc 
 156  Other ear, nose, mouth and throat diagnoses without cc/mcc 

