

2023 ICD-10-CM Diagnosis Code J84.9

Interstitial pulmonary disease, unspecified

Applicable To Interstitial pneumonia NOS

Approximate Synonyms

 Drug-induced interstitial lung disorders 
 Interstitial lung disease 
 Interstitial lung disease, drug induced 
 Interstitial pneumonia 

Clinical Information

 A diverse group of lung diseases that affect the lung parenchyma. They are characterized by an initial inflammation of pulmonary alveoli that extends to the interstitium and beyond leading to diffuse pulmonary fibrosis. Interstitial lung diseases are classified by their etiology (known or unknown causes), and radiological-pathological features. 
 Heterogeneous group of noninfectious, nonmalignant disorders of the lower respiratory tract, affecting primarily the alveolar wall structures but also often involving the small airways and blood vessels of the lung parenchyma; may lead to respiratory insufficiency and death. 
 Interstitial lung disease is the name for a large group of diseases that inflame or scar the lungs. The inflammation and scarring make it hard to get enough oxygen. The scarring is called pulmonary fibrosis.breathing in dust or other particles in the air are responsible for some types of interstitial lung diseases. Specific types include black lung disease among coal miners, from inhaling coal dust farmer's lung, from inhaling farm dust asbestosis, from inhaling asbestos fibers siderosis, from inhaling iron from mines or welding fumes silicosis, from inhaling silica dust other causes include autoimmune diseases or occupational exposures to molds, gases, or fumes. Some types of interstitial lung disease have no known cause.treatment depends on the type of exposure and the stage of the disease. It may involve medicines, oxygen therapy, or a lung transplant in severe cases. 

ICD-10-CM  J84.9  is grouped within Diagnostic Related Group(s) (MS-DRG  v 40.0):

 196  Interstitial lung disease with mcc 
 197  Interstitial lung disease with cc 
 198  Interstitial lung disease without cc/mcc 

